US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has told Israel that the US will always
be by its side blinkin made the comment
at a press conference after meeting with
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in Tel Aviv blink's words come
as the UN says nearly 340,000 people
have been forced to leave their homes in
Gaza with fears of a humanitarian crisis
growing as Israel continues to launch
air strikes against the territory Israel
says that it's hitting targets linked to
the terrorist group Hamas in retaliation
for its unprecedented attacks over the
weekend that killed at least 1,00 people
in Israel meanwhile Palestinian
authorities in Gaza say more than a
thousand people have been killed there
from Israeli
strikes President Biden was absolutely
correct in calling this sheer
evil Hamas is
Isis and just as Isis was crushed so too
will Kamas be
crushed and Hamas should be treated
exactly the way Isis was
treated they should be spit out from the
community of
Nations no leader should meet them no
country should Harbor them and those
that do should be
sanctioned Tony my
friend I say to you I say to all of us
the there will be many difficult days
ahead you may be strong enough on your
own to defend yourself but as long as
America exists you will never ever have
to we will always be there by your
side let's bring in senior International
correspondent funny faar who is in
Jerusalem funny tell us a little bit
more about the message that blink Inn
brought to
Israel what we have seen in the press
conference play out is basically what we
have heard before the arrival of us
Secretary State blink already which is a
clear sign of support that the US stands
stands side by side with Israel now uh
blink basically saying that Israel is
going to get whatever it needs to defend
itself is of course a clear
encouragement for Israel to do what it
takes for them from their perspective to
uh take out Hamas and make sure that
that militant group that terrorist
organization that's being defined as a
terrorist group by the US by the
European Union by Germany by so many
other countries
that they really get that support
however exactly this sentence by uh
secretary of state blinkin is also a
question uh whether that support by the
us is going to quell the violence
actually or rather widen the violence
here in the region and just from a very
israelian perspective here what people
are really wondering about whether the
rhetorics that were displayed there by
uh Mr blinkin whether that's going to
bring some pragmatic solution there when
it comes for example number one to the
hostages that are being held captive
since Saturday since Hammer
militants um Unleashed this terrorist
attack an estimated 150 people are being
held captive among those a lot of
Americans as well from a Palestinian
perspective of course people ask
themselves whether the US is able to do
something to increase the diplomacy with
Egypt and Israel to make sure that
before Israel is going on with the next
step to start its H ground offensive
which is really appears to be quite
imminent that Palestinians can leave
Gaza but through through which channel
really because the only border and
there's conflicting information whether
the Rafa Crossing between Egypt and and
and Gaza is open or not but uh the
question really is whether people can
get out and if they cannot whether at
least humanitarian Aid can get in so
despite the fact that as expected of
course the us being a very strong very
important Ally for Israel and beside the
fact that Mr Mr blink has expressed his
support people from all different sides
here wonder what his visit will actually
going to have a Fallout uh for Israel
for Gaza and The Wider region funny um
linkoln also arriving with a message of
deterrence both for uh States and other
actors in the region uh he will head to
Jordan uh we understand tell us a little
bit more about um what he wants to
convey in the region
so as it is laid out as a Middle East
Tour to say so because it doesn't end
here in Israel as he just pointed out in
fact uh Mr blinkin wants to visit the
leaders of Jordan King Abdullah II and
also the uh leader of the Palestinian
authorities so Mr Abbas uh on Friday now
all these
diplomatic undertakings of course are
also way for the United States to show
that first of all they do not want to go
back to square one uh one may recall
that before all of this started on
Saturday uh the US was really pushing
for Israel to normalize uh in some way
of the other ties uh with Arabic
countries for example Saudi Arabia so uh
the US is trying to show with these
diplomatic meetings that the United
States is in Israel but at the same time
also signal towards Iran for example
they should not get involved in to in
this entire conflict funny forar in
Jerusalem thank
you and US President Joe Biden says his
administration is working to secure the
release of Americans who are among the
hostages taken by Hamas Biden says he
spoke again to prime minister Netanyahu
and urged Israel to observe the rules of
War he said the US would help to make
sure that Israel has all the help it
needs in the days ahead we're going to
continue to work closely with our
partners in Israel and around the world
to ensure Israel has what it needs to
defend its citizens and cities and to
respond these attacks as I said
yesterday my commitment to Israel's
security and the safety of the Jewish
people is unshakable the United States
has Israel's back LW special
correspondent a Ibrahim joins us now
live from Washington DC a haer President
Biden is again throwing us support
behind Israel but also urging some
restraint what's being made of that in
Washington it's a message
that we've heard the US president make
for the second time Jared yesterday when
he addressed uh the nation in a in in
that speech where we saw secretary
Anthony blinkin on one side and vice
president camela Harris on the other he
said that um you know democracies have
to abide by rule of law even in
situations like this uh where there is a
war he said it again today at a meeting
with Jewish uh Community lead leaders at
uh the White House U and this this
message of restraint um is you know as
we see the the the offensive on Gaza
increas in intensity and as we see the
picture of the toll that this is uh
taking on uh civilians not just
President Joe Biden but we've also heard
uh the UN secretary uh General uh you
know urging uh Israel in its um
offensive to to to weed out uh uh
terrorists in Gaza to take into
consideration the lives of uh innocent
civilians in the Gaza Strip it's a very
densely populated area we also know that
the US Administration is trying to work
out some sort of humanitarian Corridor
that would allow civilians uh to exit
the Gaza Strip but that is something
that is still in uh in in a very uh
early stage of negotiation we also um we
know that 22 Americans have up until the
this point lost uh their lives uh in
this flare up of violence but there are
also believed to be hostages uh within
uh the the hostages that were taken in
the uh to Gaza that are US citizens and
so of course uh that is also a concern
for the US
Administration moving on to another
Point Aya now of course one of the big
fears since the attack on Saturday has
been any involvement by Iran which
supports Hamas so President Biden sent
another warning to tan tell us a bit
more about
that we heard him today uh name Iran
directly in the past couple of days
we've heard from the president and also
from the Secretary of State time and
time again saying that uh players
countries in the regions should not take
advantage uh of this situation to
advance their own geopolitical interests
uh that was always seen as a veiled uh
warning to tan which is known to known
to have supported Hamas uh in the past
um but so far there is no evidence
according to the US Administration
linking Iran tan to this uh latest
terror attack uh but the administration
officials remind us again and again that
they are you know there's support
flowing from tan to Hamas but the
evidence they haven't ruled it out but
they just don't have it uh at this point
Thank You DW's special correspondent a
Ibrahim in Washington Aya
thanks now President Biden was speaking
after meeting with leaders of America's
Jewish Community many American Jews have
close ties to Israel and are deeply
upset about what happened DW went to
meet some of them and hear what they had
to say
[Music]
these are days of mourning for the
American Jewish Community the United
States is home to the largest Jewish
population outside of Israel on this
night at the nation's capital hundreds
gathered to seek comfort in one
[Music]
another it's communal and we're all
grieving together and we're all crying
together the music I think one of the
rabbis said we need to sing and I
thought yeah everybody here has an
attachment to Israel like we for example
our children go to camp with Israeli
counselors one of them was killed we
learned this morning so you know
everybody's been touched by it and it's
uh it's just a very difficult time no
there's no question the American Support
is crucial and the president has been
unequivocal in his support in some ways
he's I think set the tone for all all
politics and and and every corner of the
United States um by using his his
position and being so Resolute together
together Israel is America's closest
Ally in the Middle East the US was the
first to recognize Israel's statehood
and it was on those close Ties That
President Joe Biden Drew upon in his
message of unwavering support for Israel
so in this
moment we must be Crystal Clear we stand
stand with
Israel we stand with
Israel and we will make sure Israel has
what it needs to take care of its
citizens defend itself and respond to
this attack there's no justification for
terrorism to that end the US has
dispatched its Navy's newest and most
advanced carrier the USS Gerald R Ford
to help W off an escalation of the
conflict Advanced Weaponry has landed in
Israel as well but beyond the necessity
of supporting a strong response analyst
Barbara slaven says she hopes that
behind the scenes calls for restraint
and the importance of preserving
civilian lives are being made the Biden
Administration has done a good job so
far of condemning the uh atrocities that
were committed uh calling them pure evil
in this hour of Israel's extreme need um
I am hopeful that there are also private
messages that are being sent to the
Israelis uh not to let their desire for
vengeance overcome both their morality
and their strategic thinking uh because
there is going to be a need to pick up
the pieces when this is all over and
there have to be interlocutors for the
Israelis uh the United States and others
to try to restore some kind of calm and
to project some kind of positive future
for the Palestinians going forward
otherwise uh we are going to see this uh
this horror movie over and over
again for now although the ongoing
Horrors weigh heavily on the hearts of
the Jewish Community there's an attempt
here to Stand United in sorrow and grief
but in Hope For
Peace well International reactions to
Hamas hamas's attack in Israel and the
Israeli AAL bombardment of the Gaza
Strip have shown the widely differing
views of the conflict around the world
let's have a
listen anger in Indonesia at the staunt
support Israel is getting from the US
hundreds of members of different Islamic
groups gathered outside the US Embassy
in Jakarta to protest demanding an end
to the Israeli air strikes on the Gaza
Strip as oppressed people Palestinians
must defend their country striving for
their nation's Independence is a duty
therefore the Palestinian people's
resistance against Israel is
justifiable on the streets of taka in
Bangladesh more
protests around a thousand members of an
islamist group chanted slogans for the
[Applause]
Palestinians
Palestinians must have their rights and
lands returned to them they must be
compensated all those who were killed in
the past should be compensated According
to Islamic Sharia law we demand an end
to the nighttime attacks on
Palestine there have also been Pro
Palestinian demonstrations by religious
groups in Pakistan
as well as
Jordan and thousands of miles away in
South
[Music]
Africa support for Israel is strong too
showing the Deep divisions being exposed
by this conflict support of Israel like
here in Australia at a state
level such a traumatic week for all of
us but we're so aware how much more
traumatic it's been for the people of
Israel and our hearts are broken for
what's gone on and we send our prayers
every minute every hour every day to the
people of Israel and all the people that
have been lost and that are injured and
kidnapped it's just the most horrific
situation in New York the city with the
largest Jewish community in the world
outside of Israel many gathered in
solidarity
and in Rome thousands remembered the
Israelis guilt in the Hamas
attack I hope they find a peace
agreement because this situation is not
good for any of
us I hope it will end as soon as
possible because two populations are
suffering and Israel is truly suffering
an aggression never seen
before
here in Chile people held a vigil for
those Israelis who lost their lives as
the world grapples with a conflict that
shows no sign of
ending